So we had mentioned button states before,
yhere's a lot of them, and this can be
a little confusing, and so I've created
a little chart for you to fill in.
Let's quickly talk about different
types of buttons before we do that.
Your buttons should, first and foremost,
look and function like buttons, right?
That's the biggest thing.
There are different styles you can apply.
You can have completely
perpendicular edges.
You can have ones with small
amount of border radius.
You can have full border radius.
You could have a drop shadow, but they
need to look and function like a button.
So we've got solid buttons.
No surprise here.
They're just filled with
a solid background.
These are pretty industry standard.
This is, you would look at this and
know it's a button.
You might have heard of ghost buttons or
line buttons.
That just means that they don't
have a solid background fill.
I'm gonna show you an example of mine,
my secondary buttons are ghost buttons.
Typically, the filled buttons are primary
buttons because they draw the most
attention.
And actually, I heard during a conference
that squared edges on buttons actually
draw the user's attention more than
rounded border radius buttons like round
buttons because there's more pixels for
the user's eye to be drawn to.
So that's just an interesting, fun fact.
But ghost buttons yeah, you would
typically see for a secondary button.
We have icon buttons,
so there are ones without labels
which you need to add some aria to.
Because without labels,
assistive technology does not
know what this is going to do.
If you can use a label,
use a label please.
We'll talk about that when
we actually code these.
So button styles.
So border radius,
we all know border radius probably.
These are gonna be a little bit more
playful than a traditional 90 degree
perpendicular button edge.
But think back to your brand identity,
think back to your design principles.
If you wanna be bold and energetic,
maybe border radius is fun to incorporate.
If you're building something
that's very professional,
you might want to stick with square edges.
Drop shadow is also cool.
These give your buttons elevation.
There is, Scott Tolinski made a great
course about style components,
design systems, and
he talked about elevation.
You can have an elevation, library,
utility function which is really fun and
can give your buttons height.
You can also implement the on hover and
focus to indicate a state change.
Let's talk about labels.
We all love uppercase text, but
it's really hard for our users to read.
Much harder to read than title case.
So if you can use title case,
I would recommend using title case.
And your labels need to fit
with the color contrast ratio,
they need to be accessible.
So you can see those bottom one is
really hard for our users to see.
It does not pass
the WCAG AA color contrast.
And also when we're talking fonts for
this, make sure it's thick enough.
If you have a very, very thin font,
it's not gonna be recognizable.
The whole goal is if you were to turn
off the color and decrease contrast,
you should still be able to
read your button and your UI.
So buttons need to be large
enough to be clickable and
accessible on mobile devices.
And so you need to make sure that they
have enough padding or enough width and
height to do so.
So a default button might have
eight pixels top and bottom.
Padding, a small might have 4 and
a large might have 16.
When I create our design system at work,
I use multiples of 4,
increments of 4, for spacing.
It plays very nicely and so you can
see here we've got multiples of 4 for
our top and bottom padding.
And horizontal padding,
you can add a horizontal padding
to keep them responsive.
So if you set a width,
it's not gonna be responsive but
if you set padding,
it's gonna be a little bit nicer.
It's gonna play a little nicer.
You can set minimum
widths on these as well.
So if you have just an icon button,
you can make it min width 100 pixels, so
it's not gonna be super tiny,
still accessible.